Let's talk about strong and weak typing and a lot of people tend to use these terms interchangeably.
That is they tend to say oh a dynamic languages weakly typed in a static language is strongly typed
which simply isn't the case as you can see here on the graph.
You can have a weak language that is statically type and a strong language that is dynamically typed
so let's make this clear javascript is a dynamic language or dynamically typed language that is weakly
typed.
What does that mean.
Well in javascript I can do this in javascript.
I can say variable A equals Booyah and then I can go ahead and say A plus 17
Booyah with 17.
That's what a weekly type language does.
Javascript says you're crazy you're you're trying to add a string to 17.
I think I know what you're trying to do.
I think you're just trying to add 17 to booyah.
So I'm just going to turn this 17 number into a string and do this and this is often called type caution
in JavaScript and it can lead to some unintended consequences and a lot of people get annoyed at javascript
for this feature because in a strongly typed language you can't do this.
For example in Python you can see that it's dynamic but strongly typed if we write some python code
let's say I'll do and I'm just gonna use python here.
Ignore the syntax.
So let's say variable is equal to booyah.
Again and then I'll do a or variable plus 17 here well this is actually going to throw an error in python
because it's going to say whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa you crazy guy.
This is you're trying to add string and numbers.
That that doesn't work.
And it's kind of throw an error because it's strongly typed.
All right.
I hope that illustrates the point nicely for you now there are once again pros and cons to doing this
but this is beyond the scope of this course.
If you really want to get into it and trust me there's tons of information out there because people
are so strongly opinionated about these topics.
I do recommend checking them out going on Google and typing strong versus weakly typed.
Let's get back on track here to our main topic that is typescript.
How can we add typescript to make javascript type safe.
All right I'm going to leave you in suspense.
I'll see you in the next video by.